Anti Airing: Part 1 - Everyone Can Use Practice Anti Airing
The Workout – In training mode pick Ryu vs Ryu. This workout requires a basic understanding of the record and playback functions in the training room. At the starting distance set the dummy to record, press up forward toward Player 1, press heavy kick (roundhouse) as you descend to make contact with Player 1, walk the dummy back to the starting position, then pause the game. It should look like this. Keeping the game paused, switch the dummy to playback then get ready to control Player 1. Now as the dummy jumps forward position yourself within range and press down and heavy punch (fierce). You should hit the dummy in the air with a crouching heavy punch and the dummy should walk back to starting position. The entire rep should look like this. Repeat this 10 times from this range. Then switch sides and repeat. Do this whole set 3 times for an Anti Air warm up.
The Purpose – Being able to Anti Air consistently prevents your opponent from approaching from the air. Jumping attacks lead to big damaging combos so it is imperative that you understand how to defend against this tactic. Furthermore, dealing damage to your opponent for trying to jump in should dissuade them from trying risky jump ins, forcing them to use their normals on the ground. So if you’ve practiced and know the range of your normals on the ground, you will already have a leg up on your opponent. Keep this specific jump in range in mind and train your brain to consider this anti air option if your opponent chooses to jump, but also be cognizant of when your opponent leaves this range. Variations include:
Choose a different character for Player 1 - Different characters use different grounded normals to anti air from this range, play around with it and find out what works best.
Choose a different character for Player 2 - If one particular character is giving you trouble with a particular jump in attack from this range, replicate that situation and practice the Anti Air answer.

Anti Airing: Part 2 - Everyone Can Use Practice Anti Airing
The Workout – In training mode pick Ryu vs Ryu. This workout requires a basic understanding of the record and playback functions in the training room. At the starting distance set the dummy to record, walk backward to a range where jumping heavy kick will hit at max distance, pause and unpause the game to reset the record timer, press up forward toward Player 1, press heavy kick (roundhouse) as you descend to make contact with Player 1, walk the dummy back to the original position, then pause the game. It should look like this. Keeping the game paused, switch the dummy to playback then get ready to control Player 1. Now as the dummy jumps forward position yourself within range and press standing heavy kick (roundhouse). You should hit the dummy in the air with a far standing heavy kick and the dummy should walk back to starting position. The entire rep should look like this. Repeat this 10 times from this range. Then switch sides and repeat. Do this whole set 3 times for an Anti Air warm up.
The Purpose – Much like Part 1, consistent Anti Airing is crucial to becoming a better player. This workout teaches you that you have the option to anti air a jump in from a further range but will need to time the Anti Air earlier in your opponent’s jump arc. The key to this workout is to be aware of this far jump in range and have that far ranged anti air in your back pocket if your opponent jumps desperately. Variations Include:
Choose a different character for Player 1 - Different characters use different grounded normals to anti air from this range, play around with it and find out what works best.
Choose a different character for Player 2 - If one particular character is giving you trouble with a particular jump in attack from this range, replicate that situation and practice the Anti Air answer.

Anti Airing: Part 3 - Everyone Can Use Practice Anti Airing
The Workout – In training mode pick Ryu vs Ryu. This workout requires a basic understanding of the record and playback functions in the training room. At the starting distance set the dummy to record, walk forward to a range where jumping medium kick (forward) will land right behind Player 1, pause and unpause the game to reset the record timer, press up forward toward Player 1, press medium kick (forward) as you descend to make contact with Player 1, walk the dummy toward Player 1 and push him for a second, then walk backward into the same distance of the original jump, then pause the game. It should look like this. Keeping the game paused, switch the dummy to playback then get ready to control Player 1. Now as the dummy jumps forward position yourself within range and as the dummy jumps forward toward you, jump away from the dummy and press hard punch (fierce) on the way up. You should hit the dummy in the air attack and the dummy should walk back to starting position. If not, position yourself to where the dummy will cross you up. The entire rep should look like this. Repeat this 30 times without being hit for an Anti Air warm up
The Purpose – Much like Part 1 and 2, consistent Anti Airing is crucial to becoming a better player. This workout teaches you that you have the option to anti air a cross up jump in from close range where a crouching hard punch might not work. The key to this workout is to be aware of this close jump in range and have that jump back fierce ready if your opponent jumps desperately. Variations Include:
Anti Airing with something else - Walk forward light punch (jab) could work or a jump forward medium punch. Play around with it and understand your options.
Choose a different character for Player 1 - Different characters use different air normals to Anti Air from this range, play around with it and find out what works best.
Choose a different character for Player 2 - If one particular character is giving you trouble with a particular jump in attack from this range, replicate that situation and practice the Anti Air answer.
