Blocking - Beginner

The Workout – In training mode pick any character vs Ryu. Turn on Input Display so you can see exactly how your inputs are being read by the game. This workout requires a basic understanding of the record and playback functions in the training room. In the Dummy Settings, set the Dummy to “Playback Recording.” You will then record three different actions in Slots 1 - 3 in the “Action Recording Settings.”

Slot 1: Walk Forward > cr.lk > cr.lk
Slot 2: Walk Forward > cr.lk > f+mp
Slot 3: Walk Forward > cr.lk > Throw

When all three actions are recorded, select “Action Playback Settings” and activate Slots 1 - 3, then get ready to control Player 1.
Now as the Dummy walks forward, attempt to block all of the incoming attacks and tech the throw when the Dummy tries to throw you. The first blockstring is simply two crouching light kicks which must be blocked low twice by holding down back . The second blockstring is a low followed by an overhead which must first be blocked low by holding down back  then reacting to the overhead animation and blocking high by holding straight back . The third recording is a tick throw which must first be blocked low by holding down back  and the throw must be teched by inputting a throw of your own +. Block 10 blockstrings in a row. If the Dummy is able to land any hits, start back at zero. Starting this workout, it is not necessary to always avoid the throw. Slowly work in a late throw tech timed in between the second crouching light kick and the overhead. For an added challenge, reset the counter for every time that you are thrown.

The Purpose – Blocking is a fundamental requirement for every game in the Street Fighter series. Forewarning, this is not a flashy workout and when applied to a real match will not feel flashy. However, being able to block and remaining patient is a tried and true method of not being hit by your opponent’s attacks. The reason that counting the tick throw is an optional challenge is because of the relatively low damage when compared to being counter hit or being comboed into a reset which leads to even more damage. Keep in mind that this advice does not always apply to characters with strong command grabs such as Zangief or R. Mika. Furthermore, it is important to point out that this workout is not a one to one facsimile to a live match. Instead, consider the Dummy applying the recorded pressure as your real life opponent would apply pressure to your wake up or in a heads up situation after an air reset. With the overhead pressure, it is key that you are able to visually recognize when your opponent is attempting an overhead. Remember what this animation looks like and react to the startup by transitioning from a crouch block to a stand block. Most overheads are slow enough to be able to visually recognize the startup and block appropriately. In a real match blocking will force your opponent to attempt to open you up with a throw but until then, allow your opponent to do something negative on block or allow pushback to place themselves too far away to continue pressure. In either case, force the situation to return to neutral and come back strong.