Teching Throws - Beginner
The Workout – In training mode pick any character vs Ryu. Turn on Input Display so you can see exactly how your inputs are being read by the game. This workout requires a basic understanding of the record and playback functions in the training room. In the Dummy Settings, set the Dummy to “Playback Recording.” You will then record three different actions in Slots 1 and 2 in the “Action Recording Settings.”
Slot 1: Walk Forward > cr.lk > Throw
Walk Forward > + > +
Slot 2: Walk Forward > st.mp > Throw
Walk Forward >  > +
When both actions are recorded, select “Action Playback Settings” and activate Slots 1 and 2, then get ready to control Player 1. Now as the Dummy walks forward, block the initial attack and tech the following tick throw. A throw must be teched by inputting a throw of your own + but you will find that the timing varies between the two tick throw setups. Attempt to tech 10 tick throw attempts in a row. If you are unable to tech a throw, start back at zero. Video Here
The Purpose – In Street Fighter V it is possible to avoid being thrown by backdashing, jumping, performing a move that is considered airborne or unthrowable, or by teching the throw. Only normal throws can be teched, command grabs cannot be teched. You cannot tech a throw when you are still in recovery. With all that said, being able to consistently tech throws takes three specific skills. The first is recognizing specific tick throw setups which varies between characters based on their typical normal pressure in comparison to their normal throw range. You’ll even notice this in the workout as the timing of Ryu’s cr.lk tick throw is different from the st.mp tick throw. The second skill you need is to be able to read your opponent and the current situation. An opponent committed to blocking or not hitting buttons on defense forces their opponent to go for a throw attempt. Or if you are close to stun in a wake up situation where a throw will be just enough. All of these things must be considered when reading your opponent in a live match. The third skill you need is simply the ability to react. Some tick throws require a slight step forward or perhaps your opponent attempts a dash up throw. Both situations require you to be able to react appropriately in order to successfully attempt the throw. With that said, this workout is not a true representation of what it is like to tech a throw in a live match because it removes one of the three skills. Regardless, this should provide enough variety and practice to help your ability to tech throws.
It is worth mentioning the Throw Tech mechanics in Street Fighter V. The startup on all normal throws is 5 frames. The window available to tech a throw is 7 frames after the first active frame. There is also a 2 frame buffer window in any situation, making it possible to tech an incoming throw anywhere between 2 frames before leaving blockstun, for instance, all the way up until the end of the 7 frame tech window. Also, you cannot be thrown within two frames of recovering from hitstun/blockstun or when waking up from a knockdown or air reset. There’s some funny math going on here but this allows for a possible 11 frames to hit throw if you suspect an incoming throw. Studies show that typical human reaction speed is roughly 18 frames making your ability to read your opponent very important when you attempt to tech your opponents throw.
