Fireball Motion: The Quarter Circle - Absolute Beginners
The Workout – In training mode pick Ryu vs Ryu. Turn off stun to not waste time. Turn on Input Display so you can see exactly how your inputs are being read by the game. We are going to breakdown this motion to its most basic components:
 +
In order to perform this motion let’s begin with Player 1 (player controlled) on the left and the dummy on the right. Now with the control stick start by holding the  direction. Now make a smooth transition from  to  to . As your control stick moves to the  position, press any punch button. Ryu should throw a Hadoken (Fireball). Note that you can have one fireball on the screen at any one time. Now perform this motion 10 times in a row. If you fail to throw a fireball, look at your inputs to see how you have failed, then start back at zero. Now switch sides and perform the Fireball motion with Player 1 (player controlled) standing on the right and the dummy to the left. Inputs for the fireball motion will be reversed. Now with the control stick start by holding the  direction. Next make a smooth transition from  to  to . As your control stick moves to the  position, press any punch button. Now perform this motion 10 times in a row. If you fail to throw a fireball, look at your inputs to see how you have failed, then start back at zero. Repeat this set from both sides until you no longer fail an input.
The Purpose – The Quarter Circle is a classic special move input for the Street Fighter series and can be seen on a number of moves list across the entire cast of characters. Being able to execute the quarter circle motion on demand is a basic skill that one needs to master in order to become a better player. Make a special note of how long it takes Ryu to throw a fireball and the speed of the fireball based on the button that you pressed. The space covered by the fireball and the time it takes to throw the fireball will be incredibly important when you try to apply this move to you neutral game. Variations Include:
Walking Forward Into a Quarter Circle - One extremely common mistake is to perform the quarter circle motion too quickly and end up accidentally throwing a Shoryuken (Dragon Punch, DP). To avoid this mistake you can perform the motion like this:
 >  >  >  >  >  +
Or  >  >  >  >  +
Be deliberate with your inputs and play around with the timing of your punch button. It is possible to delay the punch button for quite some time and still have the special move register.
Reverse the inputs and press a kick button to perform a Tatsumaki Senpukyakyu (Tatsu, Hurricane Kick) - This is Ryu’s other special move which uses the quarter circle input. But this time if the player character is standing on the left, the Quarter Circle will go from  >  >  + .
