Learning Charge: The Down Up Charge Motion - Absolute Beginners
The Workout – In training mode pick Chun-Li vs Chun-Li. Turn off stun and set the Dummy to Normal Recovery to not waste time. Turn on Input Display so you can see exactly how your inputs are being read by the game. We are going to breakdown this motion to its most basic components:
 (Charge)  +
In order to perform this motion let’s begin with Player 1 (player controlled) on the left and the Dummy on the right. Now with the control stick start by holding the down  direction. Hold this direction for approximately 1 real time second. Now quickly move the control stick to the upward direction  and as your control stick moves to the up  position, press any kick button. Chun-Li should perform a Spinning Bird Kick (SBK). Now perform this motion 10 times in a row. If you fail to perform a Spinning Bird Kick, try charging for a longer amount of time and make sure you aren’t pressing the kick button too late, then start back at zero. Note that there is no need to change sides for this exercise because down up charge is not affected by character position. Video Here
The Purpose – Down to Up charge motions are a classic special move input for the Street Fighter series and can be seen on a number of moves list across the entire cast of characters. Being able to execute a charge move and understanding the time required to charge an attack is a basic skill that one needs to master in order to become a better player. Make a special note of time required to charge this attack and recognize that not all charge motions require the same amount of time to charge. Variations Include:
Charging from any down direction - Down Up charge motions can be charged from any down direction and finished with any up direction. This means that you are able to charge a Spinning Bird Kick by holding down, down back, or down forward (, , )! Likewise, you can execute your down up charge with any upward direction such as up, up back, or up forward (, , ! This is especially important if you want to execute a down up charge special move while maintaining charge for a back forward charge special.
Canceling a standing normal into a down up charge special move - While this may sound impossible and impractical because you will lose your charge by putting the stick to neutral in order to perform a standing normal, and most charge characters have cancelable crouching normals, this skill is ocassionally useful for interesting situations or if you just want to style on your opponent. The key to canceling a standing normal into a Down Up Charge special is to hit the button for your standing normal while you’re transitioning from Down to Up. As Chun-Li perform the following combo (c.lk > cr.lk > st.lp xx lk SBK):
+>+>+xx+
The above combo is a useful, low hitting, meterless, hit confirm which takes advantage of Chun-Li’s ability to cancel her standing light punch into Spinning Bird Kick. The input buffer window is rather forgiving but the key to this combo is to only briefly put the stick at neutral just to hit your standing light punch, then immediately press up and light kick. Video Here
