Punishes: The Crush Counter - All Levels
The Workout – In training mode pick Ryu vs Ryu. Note that you can chose any character as your playable character but the punish combo will change. See Here For Crush Counter Ideas. Turn off stun, turn on all guard, and quick rise to not waste time. Turn on Input Display so you can see exactly how your inputs are being read by the game. In the Dummy Settings, select “Record Guard Recovery Action” slot one and with reversal timing perform a Medium Punch Shoryuken (mp DP). Enable slot one playback under “Set Guard Recovery Actions.” As the Player Character, walk up to the dummy and force them to block a crouching light punch (cr.lp)  and immediately hold down back . The Dummy should then perform an invincible mp DP and you will have enough advantage after the cr.lp to block this reversal. As the Ryu is landing hit him with the following combo: st.hk > cr.hp xx hp.DP
 > + xx +
Now perform this punish 10 times in a row. If you fail to perform a punish start back at zero. Switch sides and perform another set without failing to punish. Video Here
The Purpose – If your opponent is going to give you the opportunity to take away a good chunk of their health it would be wise to have the proper punish on deck. Crush counters often lead to your most damaging combos and a blocked Shoryuken will give you the most time and best positioning to set up your most damaging combo. This workout is designed to replicate a situation where you are baiting your opponent to mash out a reversal. You either hear them mashing the reversal during blockstun or have the correct read so you do something quick and safe in order to block the reversal. You may also run into this situation on your opponents wake up. Note that with Ryu’s Shoryuken, you have to time your st.hk crush counter to land as Ryu is landing. If you hit him out of the air you will put him in a juggle state and miss out on some damage. Variations Include:
Spending Meter for More Damage - There may be situations where you will want to spend meter in order to do more damage. It is good to always be mindful of how much meter is available in order to get the most out of your punish combos. Ryu might want to combo into a Critical Art, he might want to juggle with EX Tatsu in the corner, or he might want to cancel into V-Trigger and really cash out on damage. This is where you will need to do the quick mental math on how much life your opponent has left verses how much meter you want to spend or how much time is left in the match verses how likely you are to close out the round if you were to save the meter… the list goes on but at the very least it is important to have the ability to perform these damaging combos in these highly punishable situations.
Selecting Different Characters - Ryu’s Shoryuken is not the only Crush Counterable reversal and you will run into in this game. For example you might block Necalli’s HP Raging Light, Cammy’s Cannon Spike, etc. and you need to be ready in those different situations. If you don’t play Ryu figure out what your optimal punish is with your main. For example Zangief can land a st.hp Crush Counter into another st.hp canceled into a V-Trigger into an airborne EX SPD for massive damage and stun but that’s only one option for one character. Keep an open mind and explore the possibilities with your favorite character.
