Punishes: The Light Confirm - All Levels
The Workout – In training mode pick Ryu vs Ryu. Note that you can chose any character as your playable character but the punish combo will change. See Here For Combo Ideas. Turn off stun, turn on all guard, and quick rise to not waste time. Turn on Input Display so you can see exactly how your inputs are being read by the game. In the Dummy Settings, set the Dummy to “Playback Recording” and select “Action Recording Settings.” In slot 1 record Ryu walking up to the player character and performing a forward (Collarbone Breaker, Overhead) + and hold back during and after the recovery. Pause the game again and in the “Playback Recording” menu, select “Action Playback Settings” and activate slot 1. Now, as the player character block the overhead (must be blocked high) and as the Dummy is recovering punish with: st.lp > st.lk xx lk Tatsu.
>xx+
Now perform this punish 10 times in a row. If you fail to perform a punish start back at zero. Switch sides and perform another set without failing to punish. Video Here
The Purpose – There are many instances in this game where your opponent might put themselves at a very slight disadvantage where the window of opportunity to punish is very small. Ryu’s standing light punch is his fastest normal and if you know your opponent did something unsafe, starting out with a stand light punch is safe if you’ve mistimed your punish. Tacking on the standing light kick should give you enough time to confirm whether or not the standing light punch connected. Sometimes you have to take what you can get but the important lesson to learn here is to have a damaging punish against unsafe moves. You could extend this combo with more hits depending on the range which might also give you time to react to see if your initial hit came out in time. This lesson when applied to other unsafe pressure from any character in the game will become extremely valuable. Variations Include:
Punishing Other Unsafe Moves - Too often do unsafe moves go unpunished. The quicker you can recognize which moves can be punished the better. This will ensure that you’re not leaving damage on the table and it will dissuade your opponent from abusing unsafe tactics. For example, set the Dummy action playback to have Karin perform a hard punch Ressenha with a Senha Kusabi follow up +>+ and punish in between the overhead hit and the slide as laid out in workout. If you find yourself constantly blocking your opponents attacks look them up to see if they are in fact punishable! View all the frame data here and pay close attention to the “Block Advantage” column. If this number is negative and leaves the opponent close enough, punish with your favorite party starter! Sweeps are a huge culprit of moves that go unpunished so set that up in training mode and get used to punishing sweeps.
Deal More Damage - The combo listed in the workout is not the maximum damage that Ryu can achieve in the presented situation. You might not even play Ryu so play around with this format to figure out what works best for you and your character in situations where your opponent did something unsafe. It is mentioned previously but See Here For Combo Ideas if you’re lost on combo potential. This is something that you will need to play around with in order to fully optimize your punishing skills. Moves that have greater pushback might not be punishable by your favorite combo starter so you may need to adjust and change your approach. The key here is to be able to recognize those situations and never let your opponent get away unpunished. The harder you can punish, the better.
