Neutral Whiff Punishing - Beginners
The Workout – In training mode pick Ryu vs Zangief. Turn on Input Display so you can see exactly how your inputs are being read by the game. In the Dummy Settings, set the Dummy to “Playback Recording” and select “Action Recording Settings.” In slot 1 record Zangief walking up to max range uncharged standing hard punch (st.hp, stand fierce  ) then hold backward, walking back to the starting position. Pause the game again and in the “Playback Recording” menu, select “Action Playback Settings” and activate slot 1. Now, as the player character, react to Zangief walking forward and walk backward out of range of Zangief’s st.hp. As you are now standing outside of the range of Zangief’s st.hp, time your whiff punish so that you hit Zangief during his recovery frames. Whiff punish with: st.hp xx V-Trigger (Denjin Renki) > Critical Art (Denjin Hadoken)
xx+>+
Now perform this whiff punish 10 times in a row. If you fail to perform a whiff punish start back at zero. Video Here
The Purpose – Whiff punishing is a major component of almost every fighting game. Recognizing what button your opponent is likely to press at any given range, and then having the correct response to punish them for hitting that button will make you a very dangerous player. The whiff punish listed in the workout is a very easy whiff punish relative to other normals and whiff punishes in this game. Some Zangief’s might try and hit you with a max range standing hard punch because it moves him forward slightly, has armor at the start, is relatively safe on block at max range, and he has a lot to gain if he lands a hit. Zangief’s forward walkspeed is one of the slowest in the game and as Ryu you can easily dictate the range and walk outside of Zangief’s standing hard punch. The recovery on Zangief’s st.hp is relatively slow making the window of opportunity to whiff punish relatively large. Use this to your advantage. When you attempt to apply this lesson to actual in game experience, try to anticipate when your opponent will try to press a button that is highly whiff punishable. You may find that you can walk forward into the range of their farthest button, quickly walk backward out of this range, and then react to their whiffed normal with the whiff punish you know will work. Take special note of where you need to be standing before Zangief even begins to walk forward. If you are already standing too close, your walk speed will not be fast enough to walk backward out of range of the standing hard punch. Knowing these ranges is crucial to playing footsies. Variations Include:
Whiff Punishing Lows - The setup for this variation is very similar except this time Zangief will walk into max range crouching hard kick (sweep, cr.hk + ) and instead of whiff punishing with a standing hard punch Ryu will punish with a sweep of his own. Again, this is a very easy whiff punish because Zangief’s walk speed is poor and the recovery on this normal is high making the window of opportunity to whiff punish fairly large. Unfortunately for Ryu, he doesn’t have that many effective damaging whiff punishes for lows from far range. However, keep in mind that anything which leads to a knockdown will give you the advantage whether or not your opponent quick rises. Video Here
Whiff Punishing Other Normals - This is where things get interesting and exponentially more complicated. Apply the original workout to other common pokes from other characters in the cast. If you don’t play Ryu, choose another character and find out which button beats your opponents buttons at what range. The best way to figure out which button to work on whiff punishing is to watch your replays and see for yourself which buttons you were hit with in the neutral and at what specific range you were standing when you were hit. There might be an instance where you were hit by Nash’s Step Kick (f+hk) +. It’s a good button which is relatively safe on block so it makes sense for Nash to hit this button at some point. However, keep in mind that Nash’s walkspeed is relatively slow in comparison to other members of the cast. As Rashid you might be able to recognize that Nash is trying to walk forward into his Step Kick so in response you walk backward out of range of the Step Kick and whiff punish with standing medium punch cancelled into light punch spinning mixer: xx+. In a real match, at this range consider the risk of attempting this whiff punish. If Nash goes for Step Kick, you’ll get your whiff punish. If Nash does nothing, you’ve whiffed a quick recovering normal for a rather far range which Nash would have a very difficult time whiff punishing on reaction. Keep this concept in mind whenever you are faced with being out-poked in the neutral and emulate that situation in training mode.
